.TH HCRON "7" "April 2010" "hcron 0.14" ""
.SH NAME
hcron \- Set of programs for scheduling command execution

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Hcron is part of the family of cron-like tools which schedule command
execution. What distinguishes hcron is:
.IP \[bu] 2
each event is defined in its own file thereby simplifying management
of the event definitions using filesystem tools (e.g., cp, mv)
.IP \[bu] 2
events may be hierarchically organized (does not affect scheduling)
thereby providing some structure to the set of events; this can be
useful when working with many events
.IP \[bu] 2
event definitions use explicit "name=value" settings thereby simplifying
modification of event definitions using file editing tools (e.g.,
sed)
.IP \[bu] 2
each event is associated with a host on which it is to execute; depending
on the configuration, the executing on the local host may restricted
.IP \[bu] 2
an optional email notification can be sent upon event command execution

.PP
A converter tool (hcron-conv) is provided to help move from cron to
hcron.

.PP
Refer to the individual manual pages for more information.

.SH NOTES
The hcron programs are written in Python and need only a basic install.

.SH SEE ALSO
hcron-conv(1), hcron-event(1), hcron-info(1), hcron-scheduler(8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by John Marshall.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <xyz@xyz>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008-2010 Environment Canada.
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
