.TH HCRON-CRON "1" "October 2010" "hcron 0.16" ""
.SH NAME
hcron-conv \- Convert between crontab and hcron event definition files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hcron-conv
.B --to-events
.I [options]
.I <hostName>
.I <crontabPath>
.I <dirPath>
.br
.B hcron-conv
.B --to-crontab
.I [options]
.I <crontabPath>
.I <dirPath>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
hcron-conv converts between crontab and hcron event definition file
formats.

.PP
Converting from crontab to event definitions
.RB ( --to-events )
takes a
standard crontab file and generates an event definition file for each
command, with any preceding comments carried over. Variables and percent
sign handling are not supported.

.PP
Converting from hcron event definitions to a standard crontab file
.RB ( --to-crontab )
takes a directory containing hcron event definition
files and generates a single crontab file. If the "host" entry is
not empty, then a remote shell invocation is prepended to the command
string.

.PP
crontabPath may be a file path or - (stdin).

.PP
Where
.TP
.B --to-events
parameters and options are:

.TP
.I <hostName>
The host name used when populating the "host" entry in the event
definition file.

.TP
.I <crontabPath>
The crontab file. May also be -, in which case input is from stdin.

.TP
.I <dirPath>
Path into which the event definition files are stored, with names
starting at 0.

.TP
.B --mail
.I <address>
Email address used when populating the "mail" entry.

.PP
Where
.B --to-crontab
options are:
.TP
.I <crontabPath>
The crontab file. May also be -, in which case output is to stdout.

.TP
.I <dirPath>
Path from which the event definition files are read. All event
definition files below dirPath are converted.

.TP
.B --remoteShell
.I <shell>
The remote shell to prepend to each command when a "host" entry is not
empty. The default is ssh.

.SH SEE ALSO
hcron(7), hcron-event(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by John Marshall.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <xyz@xyz>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008-2010 Environment Canada.
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
